The DevOps process flow is also referred to as the DevOps lifecycle and is portrayed in the shape of an infinity loop - no beginning and no end continuously circling through the processes.

The infinity loop often contains additional processes (ie. TESTING) or slightly changed names of the processes but is always shown in the two main loops for development and operation.

Plan - This is the initial process, where the system analysis of the tasks takes place. Agile practices should be adopted for increased speed and quality. Work should be broken into smaller pieces to deliver incremental value. During this process collaboration between all team members is required plus the tools to capture and track everything that is being planned.

Code/Build - Here the planned tasks are realised and put into code using automated tests. Scripts need to be written to automate builds. Tools required are version and configuration management, testing software (coding tests, functional tests, performance/load tests and service virtualisation tests) as well as automated CI tools to incorporate this process into the CI/CD pipeline.

CI/CD - CI/CD allows teams to release quality products frequently and predictably, from source code repository to production with automated workflows. Teams can merge code changes frequently, deploy feature flags, and incorporate end-to-end testing.

Monitor - Quickly identify and resolve issues that impact product uptime, speed, and functionality. Automatically notify your team of changes, high-risk actions, or failures, so you can keep services on.

Operate - Manage the end-to-end delivery of IT services to customers. This includes the practices involved in the design, implementation, configuration, deployment, and maintenance of all IT infrastructure that supports an organization’s services.

Continuous Feedback - DevOps teams should evaluate each release and generate reports to improve future releases. By gathering continuous feedback, teams can improve their processes and incorporate customer feedback to improve the next release.
Throughout the above infinite loop are collaboration and communication - Throughout each phase, teams collaborate and communicate to maintain alignment, velocity, and quality.

(Content from Module 5 - ISYS3001-2023-T4 Managing Software Development )